# Milestone M2: Team Feedback

This milestone M2 provides an opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you are performing in the project. By now, you should be building upon the foundations set in M1, achieving greater autonomy and collaboration within the team. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The feedback focuses on two major themes:
First, whether you have adopted good software engineering practices and are making progress toward delivering value to your users.
Is your design and implementation of high quality, easy to maintain, and well tested?
Second, we look at how well you are functioning as a team, how you organize yourselves, and how well you have refined your collaborative development.
An important component is also how much you have progressed, as a team, since the previous milestone.
You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M2 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M2.md) document.
As mentioned in the past, the standards for M2 are elevated relative to M1, and this progression will continue into M3.

We looked at several aspects, grouped as follows:

 - Design
   - [Features](#design-features)
   - [Design Documentation](#design-documentation)
 - [Implementation and Delivery](#implementation-and-delivery)
 - Scrum
   - [Backlogs Maintenance](#scrum-backlogs-maintenance)
   - [Documentation and Ceremonies](#scrum-documentation-and-ceremonies)
   - [Continuous Delivery of Value](#scrum-continuous-delivery-of-value)

## Design: Features

We interacted with your app from a user perspective, assessing each implemented feature and flagging any issues encountered. Our evaluation focused mainly on essential features implemented during Sprints 3, 4, and 5; any additional features planned for future Sprints were not considered in this assessment unless they induced buggy behavior in the current APK.
We examined the completeness of each feature in the current version of the app, and how well it aligns with user needs and the overall project goals.


Your app has many features (calendar, quizzes, posts) which all add substantial value to the app. Furthermore, your features are not all trivial as they do not only consist in storing and displaying data to/from the cloud service; instead you apply - for instance - transformations like fancy filtering based on location. However, as denoted in your team retrospective, it appears that you sometimes prefer skipping challenging feature in favor of eaier one, by fear of not being able to complete them. That is a point you should work on, and it is a very good thing that you noticed it without needing us, you coaches, to tell you about it.


For this part, you received 6.3 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Design: Documentation

We reviewed your Figma (including wireframes and mockups) and the evolution of your overall design architecture in the three Sprints.
We assessed how you leveraged Figma to reason about the UX, ensure a good UX, and facilitate fast UI development.
We evaluated whether your Figma and architecture diagram accurately reflect the current implementation of the app and how well they align with the app's functionality and structure.


Your Figma is up-to-date with the current state of the app. However, it does not show any future UI parts, which is unfortunate.
Your architecture diagram is up-to-date with the current state of your app. But as you can see, the Auth screen communicates directly with Firebase services, instead of relying - at least - on a viewModel.


For this part, you received 4.5 points out of a maximum of 6.0.

## Implementation and Delivery

We evaluated several aspects of your app's implementation, including code quality, testing, CI practices, and the functionality and quality of the APK.
We assessed whether your code is well modularized, readable, and maintainable.
We looked at the efficiency and effectiveness of your unit and end-to-end tests, and at the line coverage they achieve.


The quality of your code clearly improved over M1, with a better separation of the MVVM layers, better usage of the MVVM overall, better modularization, and more documentation. However, there still is a viewModel (namely, ImageViewModel) in the model folder (i.e., in the folder of the data layer), as well as other architectural issues that are described in some of your individual feedbacks (with the ProximityFetcher for instance). Also, try using string resources instead of having literal strings in your files, whether it is for test tags, or text that will be displayed to users. Using string resources will allow better maintainability, among many other things.
Your code benefits from high testing coverage, although some files are still below the 80% threshold. You did a great job on that part nonetheless.
Now regarding our experience with your app. When accessing the feed screen without login, we get stuck in an infinite loading screen. Nice pyramid on the map screen. In the "Google Map" screen, the two buttons "Auto Center On", "Auto Center Off" are somewhat laggy, as if you want to center on the user twice, you first need to click on "Auto Center off", also there is no visual indication of wether the auto centering is on or off. If you sign in, look at the feed screen, then sign out and go back to the feed screen, you can access it with the data loaded from the previous user even though there is a pop up saying that you need to login. This also happens if you delete the user and then come back. When rating pictures, if you rate it, for example 1 star, and then click again to remove the rating, it is counting your rating as 0 stars, there is no visual difference between a 0 stars rating and no rating. When opening the app, on the "welcome screen", there is a text: "Click for full map view", however when clicking, we navigate to the pyramid screen, maybe this is intented, but not clear to us.


For this part, you received 13.2 points out of a maximum of 16.0.

## Scrum: Backlogs Maintenance

We looked at whether your Scrum board is up-to-date and well organized.
We evaluated your capability to organize Sprint 6 and whether you provided a clear overview of this planning on the Scrum board.
We assessed the quality of your user stories and epics: are they clearly defined, are they aligned with a user-centric view of the app, and do they suitably guide you in delivering the highest value possible.


Your sprint backlog was well-prepared and ready for Sprint 6. All relevant tasks were assigned and appropriately tagged. Each task included a comprehensive description outlining a brief presentation and relevant acceptance criteria. In case there are dependencies between tasks, do not hesitate to state them in the description. For clarity, you should set the epic the different user stories (and their tasks) belong to.


For this part, you received 3.6 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Scrum: Documentation and Ceremonies

We assessed how you used the Scrum process to organize yourselves efficiently.
We looked at how well you documented your team Retrospective and Stand-Up during each Sprint.
We also evaluated your autonomy in using Scrum.


Your SCRUM documents are always produced on time and used effectively. The meetings are always well structured, and you are now able to autonomously lead them without needing our intervention. You also showed autonomy in your decisions regarding the evolution of the app and how you work on it.


For this part, you received 3.6 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Scrum: Continuous Delivery of Value

We evaluated the Increment you delivered at the end of each Sprint, assessing your team’s ability to continuously add value to the app.
This included an assessment of whether the way you organized the Sprints was conducive to an optimal balance between effort invested and delivery of value.


In your case, during the final sprint before a milestone, you always produce an outstanding amount of work. However, in the preceding sprints, it is often the case that, at the individual level, you contribute only a single increment (PR) or sometimes none at all. Try to maintain a more consistent level of effort across all sprints.


For this part, you received 1.2 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Summary

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M2 is 5.05. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see the [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!
